content/cv.md, before:

---
title: curriculum vitae
description: Where Ben Jeffrey has been, and what he's done.
---

<aside class="right">
    <ul class="vcard">
      <li class="fn">Ben Jeffrey</li>
      <li class="nickname">jeffbr13</li>
      <li class="locality">Edinburgh</li>
      <li class="country-name">United Kingdom</li>
      <li class="tel">07974607509</li>
      <li><a href="mailto:mail@benjeffrey.net" class="email">mail@benjeffrey.net</a></li>
      <li><a class="url" href="https://benjeffrey.com">benjeffrey.com</a></li>
    </ul>
</aside>


Employment
----------

### API Software Engineer Intern, [School of Engineering, University of Edinburgh](http://eng.ed.ac.uk) (Summer 2014)

Internship at Edinburgh's school of engineering, tasked with building a ReST API for the university's Blackboard Learn VLE. Although the project wasn't completed during my stay, I did learn a fair bit about the state of most enterprise software!


### Technical Co-founder, [Pitchpatch/ptchd](http://www.ptchd.com) (Summer 2013)

Successfully built and demonstrated a prototype 'skills-marketplace' for university campuses, having been granted a £5,000 [Summer of Student Innovation](http://jisc.ac.uk/student-innovation) grant from [Jisc](http://jisc.ac.uk/).


### Data Acquisition Software Engineer, [Skyscanner](http://skyscanner.net) (October 2013 → May 2014)

Previous work continued on a part-time basis.


### Data Acquisition Intern, [Skyscanner](http://skyscanner.net) (Summer 2013)

I worked with a team of other interns, maintaining and growing Skyscanner's
large collection of international airline scrapers, written in Python.
Duties included maintaining and updating database records, as well as
interfacing with airline counterparts in resolving issues with APIs or
webscrapers.


### Telephone Interviewer, [Ipsos Mori Scotland](http://www.ipsos-mori.com/offices/scotland.aspx) (December 2012 → January 2013)

Collecting survey data over the telephone, from participant feedback on
government programs to the monthly political thermometer. Brought my own
cuppas in a thermos.


### Waiter, [Fratello's Restaurant Scotch Corner](http://www.fratellosscotchcorner.co.uk/) (Summer 2012)

Bussing tables, manning the bar, serving banquets. Not much time for tea.


### Junior Javascript Developer, [Accendo Design](http://www.accendodesign.com/) (July → August 2011)

Three weeks of work experience, given the Rhino book to learn Javascript
on the job, and wrote some webform validation code for a real-estate management
startup. First tastes of many strange and exotic teas.

### Office Assistant, [Anarkik3D](http://www.anarkik3d.co.uk/) (June 2011)

One week of work experience, which included
playing with the company's 3D drafting software, writing
a small Python application to interface with social networks,
neatening up webpages, brewing the tea, and other essential
office-work.


Projects and Volunteering
-------------------------

To see what I'm working on right now, check out [my GitHub page](https://github.com/jeffbr13?tab=repositories).

I'm a member of the [Open Knowledge Foundation](http://scot.okfn.org/),
and I've been involved with Open Data efforts in and around the University of Edinburgh.


### Hackathons

Fairly-regular attendee of hackathons, including (but not limited to):

* Startup Weekend
* Day-of-Code Retreat
* University of Edinburgh ILWHack (team won "Best Data Mashup" category, 2013)
* [NHS Hack Scotland](http://www.nhshackscotland.org.uk)
* [Product Forge](http://productforge.io) 1, 2, and 3
* various [MLH](https://mlh.io) events


### Miscellaneous Projects

- [Social Sounds Project](http://www.socialsoundsproject), a map of sounds around Edinburgh and Scotland,
    built for the Anthropology department at the University of Edinburgh


Skills
------

### Languages

- Python
- Java
- JavaScript
- CSS/Sass/Less
- Haskell
- Golang
- SQL

### Software Stacks

Previous experience with

- [Django][] for web applications
- [Flask][] for back-ends and small applications
- Nginx, Apache


### Miscellaneous Skills

- familiarity with Agile methodology
- experienced Linux user


<!-- links -->

[minf]: http://www.inf.ed.ac.uk/student-services/teaching-organisation/taught-course-information/degree-programmes/master-of-informatics
[Flask]: http://flask.pocoo.org/
[Hakyll]: http://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/
[flickr]: http://www.flickr.com/photos/jeffbr13/sets
[Django]: https://www.djangoproject.com/

Commit message:

content: Replaced accidentally-deleted education section in CV

content/cv.md, after:

---
title: curriculum vitae
description: Where Ben Jeffrey has been, and what he's done.
---

<aside class="right">
    <ul class="vcard">
      <li class="fn">Ben Jeffrey</li>
      <li class="nickname">jeffbr13</li>
      <li class="locality">Edinburgh</li>
      <li class="country-name">United Kingdom</li>
      <li class="tel">07974607509</li>
      <li><a href="mailto:mail@benjeffrey.net" class="email">mail@benjeffrey.net</a></li>
      <li><a class="url" href="https://benjeffrey.com">benjeffrey.com</a></li>
    </ul>
</aside>


Education
---------

### [University of Edinburgh](http://www.ed.ac.uk)

Currently on a year out from studying for a [Masters of Informatics (MInf.)][minf] and due to graduate in 2017.

#### Informatics Courses

- [Functional Programming](http://www.inf.ed.ac.uk/teaching/courses/inf1-fp), Haskell
- [Object-Oriented Programming](http://www.inf.ed.ac.uk/teaching/courses/inf1-op), Java (wrote a game, team won class "teamwork" prize)
- [Cognitive Science](http://www.inf.ed.ac.uk/teaching/courses/inf1-cg), an introductory course
- [Processing Formal and Natural Languages](http://www.inf.ed.ac.uk/teaching/courses/inf2a/)
- [Computer Systems](http://www.inf.ed.ac.uk/teaching/courses/inf2c-cs/), MIPS and C
- [Software Engineering](http://www.inf.ed.ac.uk/teaching/courses/inf2c-se/)
- [Discrete Mathematics and Mathematical Reasoning](http://www.inf.ed.ac.uk/teaching/courses/dmmr/)


Employment
----------

### API Software Engineer Intern, [School of Engineering, University of Edinburgh](http://eng.ed.ac.uk) (Summer 2014)

Internship at Edinburgh's school of engineering, tasked with building a ReST API for the university's Blackboard Learn VLE. Although the project wasn't completed during my stay, I did learn a fair bit about the state of most enterprise software!


### Technical Co-founder, [Pitchpatch/ptchd](http://www.ptchd.com) (Summer 2013)

Successfully built and demonstrated a prototype 'skills-marketplace' for university campuses, having been granted a £5,000 [Summer of Student Innovation](http://jisc.ac.uk/student-innovation) grant from [Jisc](http://jisc.ac.uk/).


### Data Acquisition Software Engineer, [Skyscanner](http://skyscanner.net) (October 2013 → May 2014)

Previous work continued on a part-time basis.


### Data Acquisition Intern, [Skyscanner](http://skyscanner.net) (Summer 2013)

I worked with a team of other interns, maintaining and growing Skyscanner's
large collection of international airline scrapers, written in Python.
Duties included maintaining and updating database records, as well as
interfacing with airline counterparts in resolving issues with APIs or
webscrapers.


### Telephone Interviewer, [Ipsos Mori Scotland](http://www.ipsos-mori.com/offices/scotland.aspx) (December 2012 → January 2013)

Collecting survey data over the telephone, from participant feedback on
government programs to the monthly political thermometer. Brought my own
cuppas in a thermos.


### Waiter, [Fratello's Restaurant Scotch Corner](http://www.fratellosscotchcorner.co.uk/) (Summer 2012)

Bussing tables, manning the bar, serving banquets. Not much time for tea.


### Junior Javascript Developer, [Accendo Design](http://www.accendodesign.com/) (July → August 2011)

Three weeks of work experience, given the Rhino book to learn Javascript
on the job, and wrote some webform validation code for a real-estate management
startup. First tastes of many strange and exotic teas.

### Office Assistant, [Anarkik3D](http://www.anarkik3d.co.uk/) (June 2011)

One week of work experience, which included
playing with the company's 3D drafting software, writing
a small Python application to interface with social networks,
neatening up webpages, brewing the tea, and other essential
office-work.


Projects and Volunteering
-------------------------

To see what I'm working on right now, check out [my GitHub page](https://github.com/jeffbr13?tab=repositories).

I'm a member of the [Open Knowledge Foundation](http://scot.okfn.org/),
and I've been involved with Open Data efforts in and around the University of Edinburgh.


### Hackathons

Fairly-regular attendee of hackathons, including (but not limited to):

* Startup Weekend
* Day-of-Code Retreat
* University of Edinburgh ILWHack (team won "Best Data Mashup" category, 2013)
* [NHS Hack Scotland](http://www.nhshackscotland.org.uk)
* [Product Forge](http://productforge.io) 1, 2, and 3
* various [MLH](https://mlh.io) events


### Miscellaneous Projects

- [Social Sounds Project](http://www.socialsoundsproject), a map of sounds around Edinburgh and Scotland,
    built for the Anthropology department at the University of Edinburgh


Skills
------

### Languages

- Python
- Java
- JavaScript
- CSS/Sass/Less
- Haskell
- Golang
- SQL

### Software Stacks

Previous experience with

- [Django][] for web applications
- [Flask][] for back-ends and small applications
- Nginx, Apache


### Miscellaneous Skills

- familiarity with Agile methodology
- experienced Linux user


<!-- links -->

[minf]: http://www.inf.ed.ac.uk/student-services/teaching-organisation/taught-course-information/degree-programmes/master-of-informatics
[Flask]: http://flask.pocoo.org/
[Hakyll]: http://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/
[flickr]: http://www.flickr.com/photos/jeffbr13/sets
[Django]: https://www.djangoproject.com/
